regarding racism in the Conservative
Party does Boris's one banks on your way
not applied to him and Matthew Hinton
were you here what are we to make of
jeremy corbyn's repeated refusal on the
Andrew Neil show to apologize for the
anti-semitism he has presided over right
well I'm not gonna sorry Lana I'm gonna
start with you on that yeah I watched
that interview korban didn't look good I
don't quite understand why he didn't
apologize in that he's apologized before
and I recognize that there are two
different kinds of apology there's the
kind where you say you're sorry you were
regretful and you're sorry it's your
fault and I think he's very reluctant to
make the latter kind of apology and what
about the first question regarding
racism the Conservative Party I don't
I'm I have found the evidence of
anti-semitism in the labour party more
persuasive that that is it's more of an
institutional problem then I find the
sporadic evidence in the Tory Party if
nothing else you know the Chancellor of
the Exchequer is Muslim and that's the
second most powerful position well
Muslim background min Syed of Aussie has
said has a powerful sorry diversity in
the Conservative Party said dossier
after dossier dozens and dozens of cases
being presented with the most vile
evidence of racism within the party the
Conservative Party at every level from
members of parliament all the way down
to ordinary activists so she certainly
feels this there's quite a bit over to
Caroline well I think that racism and
all its forms is obviously vile and
unacceptable and we need to do
everything we possibly can to to stamp
it out I think the idea that because
there's a minister from a particular
faith emizner Minister in this case who
is Muslim somehow that lets off the rest
of the party from being able to have to
live up to standard
and we know there has been an up rise in
in in in racism around the times when
Boris Johnson does refer to Muslim women
wearing burkas as letter boxes and so
forth but that is that is evidence based
so it goes back in a sense to the
question it's just an image he was being
light-hearted hang on let's ask the
woman in the audience you want to talk
about that what about the rhetoric you
use about people in blue boxes when I
walk down the street and I get told
after that to go back to my
[Applause]
responsibility that was an image pain
you're now spreading hate like saying
that what is wrong with saying it's a
letterbox you're spreading hate a
[Applause]
standard slur did you read the original
offend did you read the other piece he
was standing up for Muslim women's right
to wear whatever they want
also new includes the DeKalb and they
take this consequence to what you see
I'm talking about half of many Muslims I
get told to go back to man I get
physically assaulted just walk up to the
gym in broad daylight there's
consequences to say something like that
I am very sorry to hear about your
experience but I I can't see how many
while you can how you can blame Boris
Johnson well Brandon this is clearly the
money would be Prime Minister I mean it
is not the first time this to come up on
the program I have to say well he said
one with one one bath and you're out
does that not apply to himself that was
a question
well more bouncing out is how our
partiers act I have to say when whenever
the party has found somebody in our
party who has acted in a way that is
abusive or wrong about any religion or
any race no somebody's experienced
bullying some you know my descendants
come from the Jewish so anything like
that is completely unexpected not ever
have to suffer from anybody
kind of abuse you are talking about what
you say you don't understand that I do
understand I have to say I do believe
that there are repercussions to what we
say and we as politicians have to think
about the language we use but I would
also defend the Prime Minister's right
and any politicians right I actually use
to use language to make a point and that
say the point I was gonna make I can
finish it is the article he wrote which
eat which I don't think for the way you
acted you've read it he's worth reading
it was an article argue for people
having the right to wear what they want
and not to be forced into wearing
something or not wearing something which
actually is a very very important point
and I think is right for us as a liberal
society people should have the right to
wear one but in the conservative this is
one of these I say I'm very very proud
of in exert 'party if and people talked
about dossiers I've gotta say my
experience with it was there's often a
big difference between the reality and
what people say because somebody online
saint-simon doesn't mean they're a
member of our party but actually we have
dealt with cases if we find somebody
who's act in a way that's inappropriate
whatever type of inappropriate behavior
that is that has been deal with it's
been dealt with swiftly not these tons
and tons of cases sitting around for
sometimes like Ken Livingstone years not
being dealt with by the Labour Party
that is quite a different situation and
I think it's abhorrent to see what we
saw on Antony or the other night okay
well let's that was the other question
so why did Jeremy Corbyn he has
apologized before in a meaningful way
why was he not able to do that on Andrew
I'm glad you acknowledge that because he
has acknowledged and apologized on
several occasions for the hurt caused to
members of the Jewish community so this
is why it's got awkward moment wasn't it
why did he just not not say I'm sorry he
has said he is sorry he is sorry that
this happened
why didn't he say no we're not use
weasel words about it you know when you
hear people say I'm sorry for any
offence that may have been made that
clear so why didn't you say the question
is why well because he's trying to do is
having made those apologies publish them
and he repeated them the following day
by the way
is to get on to the proactive measures
that we want to take as an incoming
government to give those protections to
the Jewish community you can still say
sorry and then talk about that as well
we've seen sorry and we've made that
apology but I think it's very very
important to set out exactly the steps
that we'll be taking in terms of the
protections afforded to places of
worship of Education and to address the
whole issues a whole gamut of
anti-semitism Islamophobia or the Falls
arose in our national curriculum to
ensure that we start building that
capacity but quite frankly for this
denial over this terrible choice of
words about letter boxes I don't really
I'm not bothered about the article it's
the choice of the words that have been
used and as a direct result of those
offensive comments you know hate crimes
increase people who were assaulted me
because of the words chosen by the prime
minister and we now see this slew of
articles in The Spectator that been on
earth about his rampant misogyny and his
abuse of women it's an absolute outrage
and I don't see the Senate taking place
I think there was a poll out this week
that said a third of voters consider
both Jeremy Corbyn and Boris Johnson to
be racist a third that is the it's just
appalling the two people who are most
one of whom is most likely to be the
next prime minister a third of voters
think they were racist so I think we
have a real problem and I think there's
a real problem on both sides I think in
the Labor Party it is an
institutionalized problem that has come
in the last few years with the arrival
of momentum and Jeremy Corbyn line he's
have been hounded out of the party and
yes there's talk of looking into things
but there is I think when you have the
chief rabbi speaking out as you did this
week it suggests there is a very serious
problem now there is also a problem in
the Tory party and the choice of words
by Boris Johnson on this subject and
indeed on others is you know appalling
and there's no way of going around it's
a stain on the Tory Party and during the
leadership campaign Boris Johnson said
there would be an independent inquiry
into Islamophobia in the party and to my
knowledge that has not happened so I
think in both cases in both cases the
parties are falling really radically
short of where they should no it's just
a minute well there's going to be an
inquiry but it's not independent and
it's in okay but it's into into all
forms of prejudice not just into
Islamophobia as was promised on on
television live television I think yes
the woman there Jeremy Corbyn made an
apology back in 2008 and it just seems
to me that it doesn't matter how many
times he apologizes it's never enough
what happens to forgiveness why does
somebody have to keep on saying the same
thing over and over again and not being
believed there are two black women that
sit regularly on the front benches with
Jeremy Corbyn if there was rampant
racism in the Labor Party I'm sure they
would have known about it and identified
it
I don't didn't believe that he gets a
fair deal from the media or the press in
terms of wanting to protect their
position and their minions that they
that they park off overseas in offshore
accounts and they see him as a threat to
that position and this that's what this
is all about and quite frankly a
[Applause]
continual pummeling of Jeremy Corbyn for
no good reason and it just seems to me
that people just don't understand or or
recognize a decent person when they see
one anymore they want people to keep on
being nasty and spiteful and evil all
the time and it's not right well I can
see people I can see people agreeing
with you certainly the sentiment people
agree on some of it and shaking their
head at some of it as well
[Applause]
[Music]